
## The ecology of individual differences empirically applied to space-use and movement tactics

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/226946276.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/226946276)

  - Authors:
      - [Quinn M.R. Webber](https://qwebber.weebly.com/)
      - [Michel P. Laforge](https://mammalspatialecology.weebly.com/)
      - Maegwin Bonar
      - [Alec L. Robitaille](http://robitalec.ca)
      - Christopher Hart
      - Sana Zabihi-Seissan
      - [Eric Vander Wal](http://weel.gitlab.io)

## Abstract

Movement provides a link between individual behavioral ecology and the
spatial and temporal variation in an individualâ€™s landscape. Individual
variation in movement traits is an important axis of animal personality,
particularly in the context of foraging ecology. We tested whether
individual caribou (*Rangifer tarandus*) displayed plasticity in
movement and space-use behavior across a gradient of resource
aggregation. We quantified first-passage time and range-use ratio as
proxies for movement-related foraging behavior and examined how these
traits varied at the individual level across a foraging resource
gradient. Our results suggest that individuals adjusted first-passage
time, but not range-use ratio, to maximize access to high-quality
foraging resources. First-passage time was repeatable and intercepts for
first-passage time and range-use ratio were negatively correlated.
Individuals matched first-passage time, but not range-use ratio, to the
expectations of our patch-use model that maximized access to foraging
resources, a result that suggests that individuals acclimated their
movement patterns to accommodate both intra- and inter-annual variation
in foraging resources on the landscape. Collectively, we highlight
repeatable movement and space-use tactics, and provide insight into how
individual plasticity in movement interacts with landscape processes to
affect the distribution of behavioral phenotypes, and potentially
fitness and population dynamics.
